>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I will explain
why we are using the state of
persistence piece in a moment.
So, kind of the standard shape for this,
is this is a generic, standard out of
the box how you would handle an effect.
Is that we're listening
to our actions and,
in comes a type and then from here
we're doing some asynchronous thing.
And, then when it's complete
then we are returning an action,
and so this would be a very straight
forward to use and we could use this.
And I would say if you're not doing any
kind of remote HTTP calling, totally fine.
You could use this form right here,
but the problem is that well,
HTTP calls, asynchronous HTTP calls.
And coordinating that can be
really tricky especially when,
what if you have more than one call?
How do you coordinate that,
how do you synchronize that?
And if you make a change, do you allow
your front end to update then update
it in the back end and then just hope it
works, and if it doesn't you roll it back?
Or do you wait for the server to update
and then you update your front end?
As well is you'll notice in here one
other piece is that the handling of,
the error if something goes wrong is
inside the post here as we make this.
Whereas If we go to our
effects file that by using
data persistence to kind
of wrap the sequence.
That it's going to provide
an extra layer of protection for
just a straight fetch, so there's some
utilities and some guards built in there.
But we can also determine, in the case of
like we're going to create something or
modify something in the server, that we
can either do it as a pessimistic update.
In other words, wait for
the server to complete before
dispatching this into the reducer.
Or you can do it optimistically and
say go ahead and
pass on the data structure
into the reducer.
And then if something goes wrong
then we'll let you know so
that you can undo it.
So, there are very good reasons
to use one or the other.
The other piece here is that I find that
this is a little bit easier to read.
By having a clear, this is my run block,
this is my error block.
And so this just a slight variation
on effects but especially when you're
doing server communication,
this is I think a really good utility.
But it would be very easy to
essentially do it through as well.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Go Projects,
Add Project, and so
let's do a run block here.
So it takes an action,
which is going to be LoadProjects.
And it takes stay, so
this is another thing that if you
haven't you will run into this of well,
I need to make some kind of decision
based on something else in the state.
And so getting that into your effect can
sometimes be tricky whereas
this provides this for you.
What is this angry about?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, now this
is where the asynchronous part comes in.
So from here we're just going to return
this projectsService.all,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: pipe,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: (map).
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
think I'm getting little
bit parentheses heavy here.
So we are going to get our result,
which is going to be an array of projects,
and
then from here, what do we do?
So we have just made some asynchronous
call, something has happened.
And now we get our collection back,
what do we do?
Well, we would then want to
put it into the reducer, and
so we'll go new ProjectsLoaded and
pass in the result.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I could
probably even move this up here.
Now that I've kind of broken this out and
I know where I'm at, here we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, how this works
is we're creating a load project
effect that is listening for
little projects.
From there it's going
to run this code here.
And in this case we're saying
I want to return the result of
calling projectsService.all.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
I want to not necessarily return this but
instead we're going to map
it to a new action object.
So our trigger object is here.
This is our command action,
go do this thing.
And then down here,
this is our completed action.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: With that
said we need to update our reducer
not to listen to LoadProjects but
ProjectsLoaded, does that make sense?
So what we're doing is instead of
going straight to the reducer is we're
creating middleware or
something in the middle.
That takes an incoming object,
it does something, and
then puts something else out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then from here let me just do one more.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: How much
of this did I build out?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me do the entire
run block and then we'll just fix it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
in this case,
AddProject, here, AddProject.
So, this is the command,
then we're going to go create,
create, all right?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, we'll copy the run
block one more time, sad I lost it,
when it asked me to close.
AddProject,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Instead
we're gonna go create and
we're going to pass in the action.payload.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then we're going to go ProjectAdded.
this is not an array of projects but
this is a single project.
Now same thing here,
we go back into the reducer,
it's no longer addProject but
ProjectAdded.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Make sense?
Now last but not least,
the one thing that you absolutely
must do or it will not work.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This is
kind of the equivalent of,
I forgot to import the right thing.
Is in order for this to get
registered in your application,
you need to add this into
your effects module for
root, drop this in here.
And so now It's registering this
two listen for all the events.
If not it just simply would not be at
the middle, it would be somewhere else.
And so then if we go into our
projects component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
even here it's like I don't know,
something's not right here.
Well, very astute, so, this loadProjects.
The difference is this is
where we're going wrong.
This no longer takes a payload cuz
we're just using this as a trigger.
Now, I addProject on the other hand and
this is still correct but
instead of going straight to the reducer,
that in the effect,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's going to,
the effect then going to call the service,
and when that's
completed it's going to dispatch
a new action object with the result.